Release Notes -- Apache Jackrabbit -- Version 2.0-alpha1

Introduction
------------

This is the first alpha release of Apache Jackrabbit 2.0. This release
implements the Proposed Final Draft (PFD) version of the JCR 2.0 API,
that is being specified by the Java Specification Request 283 (JSR 283,
http://jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=283).

The purpose of this alpha release is to allow people to test and review
the new JCR 2.0 features before they are finalized. Feedback to both the
Jackrabbit project and the JSR 283 expert group is highly appreciated.
Note that an alpha release is not expected to be feature-complete or
otherwise suitable for production use.

Changes in this release
-----------------------

Jackrabbit 2.0 is a major upgrade from the earlier 1.x releases. The most
notable changes in this release are:

  * Upgrade to JCR 2.0. This Jackrabbit release implements and is based
    on the PFD version of the JCR 2.0 API. Note that not all of the new
    JCR 2.0 features are yet fully functional. We expect to achieve
    feature-completeness in time for the final Jackrabbit 2.0 release.

  * Upgrade to Java 5. All of Jackrabbit (except the jcr-tests component)
    now requires Java 5 as the base platform. Java 1.4 environments are no
    longer supported.

  * Separate JCR Commons components. Many of the general-purpose JCR
    components like JCR-RMI and OCM are now developed and released
    separately from the Jackrabbit content repository. See the individual
    components for their most recent releases.

For more detailed information about all the changes in this and other
Jackrabbit releases, please see the Jackrabbit issue tracker at

    https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/JCR

Release Contents
----------------

This release consists of a single source archive packaged as a jar file.
The archive can be unpacked with the jar tool from your JDK installation.
See the README.txt file for instructions on how to build this release.

The source archive is accompanied by SHA1 and MD5 checksums and a PGP
signature that you can use to verify the authenticity of your download.
The public key used for the PGP signature can be found at
https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/jackrabbit/dist/KEYS.

About Apache Jackrabbit
-----------------------

Apache Jackrabbit is a fully conforming implementation of the Content
Repository for Java Technology API (JCR). A content repository is a
hierarchical content store with support for structured and unstructured
content, full text search, versioning, transactions, observation, and
more. Typical applications that use content repositories include content
management, document management, and records management systems.

For more information, visit http://jackrabbit.apache.org/

